What made our class, I think, individually
different is that we all came from modest
families. We all had a work ethic we had to have to be
there and get through. And it
brought us closer together.
Back to these student organizations. Was there an
Aggie band in those days? Oh, yes, we had an Aggie
band. Please describe it and what it meant to the
campus. Well, the Aggie band has always been
special.
One of my closest friends, General O.R. Simpson,
was in the Aggie band and came here in the Aggie
band. He was in my graduating class in high school.
I'd lay out two years and he'd go to sea, but he went
directly to A&M. And he was a great influence on my
life and one of my dearest friends today, although
I see him seldom because his wife is still quite ill
and he's become more or less of a cruise, you know. I
saw him not long ago at lunch. He and I became
friends when he came back to A&M. I remember when he
came, first time I met him, he was the reviewing
officer and the commissioning speaker. And I
remember that very erect carriage in that pure
white uniform. Well, I can tell you a story about
him. It'll be of interest. When he graduated in
1936, I followed him and graduated in 37, about a
year really apart. When he graduated, there was
only one appointment in the armed services as a
regular commissioner. That was the Marine Corps.
And he was the number one military graduate, and it
was given to him. And he went to the Marine Corps at
Quanto, Virginia, And I remember when he was very
much in love with Roger Miller of Bryan, Texas. So
much so that he just couldn't handle it. He
resigned his commission after a year and came back
to A&M to make his home and married Roger Miller. Of
course, the war followed very quickly, and he was
called right back to active duty. And despite
resigning that commission, he went on to become a
lieutenant general, and we have our field name for
him. But because of that, when I graduated, I was
the number one military graduate. They had only
one permanent commission to offer anyone in the
Marine Department. Colonel Converse S. Lewis
called me in and he said, Lieutenant Conway,
you've been selected for this award. It's the
greatest thing that could happen to you. You're
the only one.
I said, General Lewis, I can't take it. He was
astounded. He got up from his desk and said, you
can't do that. it's too important, it's too great.
I said, well sir, I want a cotton fellowship to
Europe and I'm a cotton, I want to get into cotton
vendors and this is what I want to do. And I said,
you've got another man that's well qualified and
more so than I am and I know wants this job and his
name is Harry Shea. Well Harry Shea took the job and
I did. One of the main reasons I didn't was because
of Harmon's experience and the fact he dropped
out. Had he stayed in, maybe I would have. I don't
know. You might have been a general. I might have
been killed going into Vietnam as a major, you
know, too. More likely. Other student groups. The
band, they performed at what kinds of events?
Well, the band, I guess, Well, the band, we had many
cool reviews and the band was always the guts, you
might say, to make it and give it the zip and the
marching music that we, the old Sousa music and
others that we just enjoyed marching to. It just
added so much to our parades, and I remember one
very distinct parade that was in my mind. I was, as I
say, I was commander of the Calvary Regiment, and
about that time the armed services were
recognizing that the Calvary was no longer a
viable military force. because the horse was so
vulnerable.
So they were shutting down one of the, in Texas, one
of the really historical great events, the Texas
National Guard Calvary Regiment.
they decided to bring the
flag of the National Guard Regiment to the A&M and
present it to our cavalry regiment. And there is
Converse S. Lewis with Colonel Thompson, the
commander at that time of the Calvary National
Guard, and his aid, and there I am accepting the
flag at that memorial occasion. It was a very
significant occasion, but no one ever gives it a
thought today, you know. That flag is among some of
our souvenirs, our memos there, souvenirs at A&M.
Well, let's hope it's still there. It should be
there. Let's see, other student organizations,
Well, back to the band.
What did you non-band members think about the
band? Did you all hold it in high regard? Did you
respect and admire the band? Oh, absolutely. All
of us did. Of course, I never was a musical, never
did play any instruments until my mother played
the piano. But I admired anyone who would
volunteer their time to All the trick, that sort of
thing. Plus I didn't have time for it because I was
working for it. Was there singing cadets in those
days? Yes, we had singing cadets. But it was not
anything like it is today. Let's see, band
director, who was the band director?
Can't remember. Okay. Yell leaders, what did the
yell leaders do in those days? They did the same
thing they do today. Old Cecil White was our year
leader and Herbie Hartung, each class had two as I
recall. Both of them were dear friends of mine.
Both of them are no longer with us. Herbie was a
little redhead who was a jewel of a man and Cecil had
a great personality and they were two leaders. did
a great job. I have heard myths and reports about
secret fraternities. Can you share anything you
heard about whether or not there were ever any
secret fraternities? I was never aware when I was a
student that there was even secret fraternities
around except I think my junior, senior year, and
I'm sure I was aware of it because I had one friend,
Eddie Longoria, I remember I heard, but it didn't
mean anything to me. Because I was familiar with
fraternities. At the University of Georgia where
my father went, I had some of my closest friends
before I moved to Texas. I always thought I would go
to the University of Georgia sometime. And when I
was in high school there, a very unusual thing
happened. I was asked with a few of the other
prominent young men to pledge K.A. Severosa in
high school as a senior. They're trying to line up
ahead of time, you know. But that was the closest
thing I ever came to any fraternity. The only
fraternity I ever detected was A&M fraternity,
and it's the greatest in the world. Summer jobs.
What did you do in the summers while you were an A&M
undergraduate? Well, I worked all summer in many
varied jobs. I worked for cotton farmers, Rand
Morgan. I kept books for him where he worked some
40, 50 Mexicans and had a little store there where
they came in and they lived in little shacks. But
they'd come in and get their groceries and I'd have
to check out and check them out to them and keep a
record of what they did. Worked there, keep a check
of their hours. That was one job I had. I worked for a
cotton generator and a cotton seed oil mill one
summer and I got a job with a freight broker because
I was trying to work for different firms that dealt
with cotton. And I worked for Wheel Brothers
Cotton Company one summer. I was a reporter for the
Call of Times and a proofreader for our paper here
for several summers in high school college. But
the main job I got was with the Ranges Converse
Company as a shipping auto clerk, where I was
responsible for
shipping cotton all over the world, various
cotton companies. You were there four years.
About how much of your expenses for going to A&M did
you earn yourself?
I would say 90%. And what, in round numbers, what
did a year cost? Do you remember? Well, back in old
days, you know, a student could get by with as
little as $2,500, probably. So $3,000 overall.
And I'm sure even less. times my buddy Omar must
have gotten by and would almost have that. Let's
put on tape your, tell them your story about
helping, you and others helping Omar Smith. Omar
Smith was in my troop, very troop, and he was an
engaging guy. He was a short We called ourselves
the Dusty Butch because we were the smallest one in
the troop and right at the end of the lines, we lined
up all in size. And Omar and I became close friends.
Well, Omar was working his way through school like
I was, except he was working at odd jobs. And at
times, when the quarterly payment came up for
subsistence, he just couldn't, didn't have the
money. So he would go in and I'd invite him to come in
and we'd put a mattress on the floor, an extra
mattress we found. He would sleep in my dormitory
and I would bring him out food under my shirt. I'd
bring him out rolls, I'd bring him out a sandwich
I'd make up, wrap it in a little napkin and a piece of
pie, a kush, and others would do the same thing,
bring a little fruit juice. It had a plastic cap on
it, and so he would go along for two or three weeks or
a month at a time, by the way, until he could save
enough money to go down and pay his assistant. And
he did that at least three or four times during his
freshman, sophomore year. And if we hadn't really
do that, he would never have graduated. But what
happened to Omar? Omar went on to become a very
successful businessman in the Browns. College
Station area. I think he ended up owning 40 or 50
Dairy Queen stores throughout Central and North
Texas and volunteered to be the tennis coach and
coached for about 10 years very successfully and
thank God the school had the forethought to and the
compassion to name the tennis court for Omar
Smith. I've participated in a memorial to him to
the former Student Association at the time, and
got several of my classmates to do the same. And we
all loved Omaha. When you were going home to Corpus
Christi, or going from Corpus Christi to College
Station, how did you normally travel?
Hitchhiked. describe hitchhiking from Corpus
to, Corpus Christi to College Station? Back in
those days, it was not like today. People were not
afraid because there were, no one was ever, hardly
ever attacked. I had uniform and traveled in
uniform wherever I could because people would
pick up Texas Hikers, they would recognize them
and they wanted to be helpful and I could make
almost as good time hitchhiking as I could if I rode
the train. In fact, I hitchhiked from, I wanted to
go visit my grandparents in Georgia, Athens,
Georgia, one Christmas. I hitchhiked over there
and I made better time than if I'd made on a train.
And I had no real problem with each time I'd make
friends with a new family or some group. share
whatever they had with me, and it was a great
adventure. Now, if you were leaving the campus
hitchhiking, where did you go to put out your
thumb? Was there a certain place? Well, there were
certain places, depending on the way you were
going. You were going to Houston, you were going to
Austin, which you'd line up. Where were those
places? You'd respect those in front of you and
wait your turn. A lot of times we'd get out there and
a man said, well, I can carry four or five. Throw
that bucket four or five. We'd all pile in and go as
far as he'd take us. Then we'd get out and do the same
thing. If
you were hitchhiking, did you put out the thumb? I
just raised my hand, you know, and they recognized
what we wanted. We were in uniform, and it was a
common practice. How many of your outfit buddies
had a car? How common was it for a student to have a
car then? In my outfit, I think there was only one
car, and the whole cavalry, there might have been
three. Were there... In my opinion. Did anybody
ever borrow... a buddy's car very much?
I didn't have any buddy that had one except
I never did borrow any cars except I told you the
case where I borrowed cases and if I was going to
borrow a car I'd borrow his. Let's see, a while ago I
see a note here, we forgot to talk about P.L. Downs.
Tell me about Pinky. Oh, Pinky. Well, Pinky, as I
may have mentioned, ever since I graduated from
A&M, my ties to A&M have always been so great
because they did so much for me that I quickly got
active in association affairs. I made the annual
association meetings and got acquainted with all
the old timers. And I...
What was the question? Pinky. Down. Pinky. Pinky
was always there. And Pinky was almost like a
native of Bryan because he was born in, if I'm not
mistaken, right near Waco over in down there where
he was a banker, if I recall correctly. But he loved
A&M so much that he kept coming back up there all the
time. And finally, he just moved his family up
there and became an unofficial greeter. And he'd
walk around the campus, and anyone coming in, he'd
introduce himself and see what he could do to help
them, show them around. Now, was he doing that when
you were an undergraduate? Oh, yeah. Describe him
physically. Well, I say he was doing it without an
undergraduate. Yes, he was on that campus nearly
all the time and I think he was a small thin man with
his glasses and but a very friendly manner, very
garrulous and he liked to talk about A&M. He liked
to show people around. He was so proud of it. Was
Lupo there when you were an undergraduate? Oh
yeah, Lupo was very much with his outfit. I never
did go and utilize his store, because I didn't need
to, as many students did. But Leupold was an
institution, and still that he died.
Let's see. Describe what it was like to try to get a
date on an all-male campus. How did an Aggie get a
date? Well, the dates that Well, the girls I was
interested in were either at the University or in
Corpus Christi. I didn't try to get any dates. I
corresponded with my dates at home or in Austin, or
I'd go to see them when I could possibly get away,
and I'd have them come see me for one of these ball
weekends. But there were a few lovely girls there
in the Bryan area, A few of them I remember.
It's kind of difficult right now.
About how often would you have a date come to
College Station? I had not. No, no. When one of the
girls from Austin or... Oh, three or four times a
semester, two or three times a semester. Was it
your task to pay her expenses? No, no. She paid all.
And they came, how did they get to College Station?
They'd come by train or out of the range for their
parents or someone to bring them up.
Usually that way. You told me that they stayed at
the Aggieland Inn or in someone's home. Where did
they eat? Aggieland Inn had a little restaurant
there. But you didn't take them into Sabeasa? Oh
yes, sometimes. Sometimes. There was special
privileges on weekends that way you could take
your date. Did the routine at the dining table
change when there were... Oh yes, oh yes. It was all
fun though. Describe the community of College
Station. What was at the North Gate area? Well, the
Northgate area had a post office there that we
utilized, and of course, Lou Pott was there, and he
had a hamburger joint or two up there, and a bank
there, and that's about it. There wasn't any big
operations, but we had a very small student body
and a small campus there. What was at Southgate?
Was there anything on Southside? I think except
the old primarily. Over on the east side on the new
highway? On the new highway, of course, just
beginning to blossom a little bit with saving a
loan. Had a small store or two.
You know, it wasn't,
that would have been a day to go in there and buy four
or five hundred acres. How often did y'all go to
Bryan?
Oh, once a month maybe. How did you get there? With
each other. And what was there in downtown Bryan
that interested a young student? The theater
there and that was about it. Just the novelty of
getting off the A&M campus and going there for a
special hamburger or something. What
major national or international events do you
remember while you were a student? Anything that
you remember on the radio or in the newspaper that
caught your attention?
Well, Roosevelt was president then. things were
happening in Europe, the Germans and the Nazi
effort beginning to form some clouds, you know,
around. When I
went to Europe, on the Cotton Fellowship, that was
after I graduated. at the summer of 1937. We went
through Germany and it was the only country where I
went that I felt uncomfortable. As you got on the
trains and moved from one place to another, you see
these brown shirted young men officially going
through there and throwing their weight around
and looking at you with question marks. and maybe
even asking you for identification and so forth.
And you'd see train load after train load as you
passed on the tracks of caissons and artillery
pieces and things moving. And there was a feeling
of uneasiness. The only place I was robbed was in
Cologne in a hotel. My room was broken in there. And
when I went out for breakfast, My purse was stolen.
Fortunately, I didn't have much money in it. But I
did have a few checks, but quickly had them
exchanged.
But I still enjoyed Germany. We took a trip down to
Cologne, right by the front of Cologne, and down
the river, the Rhine River. It was an interesting
trip. But I felt uneasy there. We all did. Did you
and other students listen to the president's
fireside chats on the radio? Did you all listen to
Franklin Roosevelt? Frankly, I didn't even have a
radio in my room. I didn't have time to do anything
but study. and work and go to sleep and eat. That
would put it well. And take part in my cavalry
activities and my monkey trail training and my
tumbling team and a little fencing and that sort of
thing. Camaraderie with my little bit around with
my friends. Describe your dorm room. How big was
it? What was in it? Who was in it? The dorm room I had
was about half the size of this room, which is
about, I'd say, about 15 by 30 or 25. And we each had a
Spartan desk chair. We each had a double bunk in
there. I had a bunk each. One place we had a double
bunk. and matches and springs, and we were
responsible for keeping it clean, but it was
spotty. And
what were the student indulgences of that time?
Did many students smoke, and if so, what did they
smoke? Well, they smoked cigarettes and they
smoked cigars occasionally because there was a
big man on the campus. When you're a senior, you get
some cigars every now and then. What was the
popular cigarette brand? Lucky Strike,
Chesterfield, Camel. Were there any places off
campus that students went to get alcoholic
beverages? Hard liquors, I never went there
because I didn't have any money to spend for it, but
also I wasn't a beer
drinker. I never went to hard liquors one time.
Hard liquors served beer? They served beer. Was
there a place, it was, I know officially the county
was dry, or I think it was. Was there, were there
places to buy whiskey? The only thing I know about
hot liggers is what I heard. I never went in there to
this day. I never went in there. Was there a
bootlegger anywhere that you? I heard that there
was some available. And I never knew where they
were, but a friend like Bailey Conahan would know
and Bailey would find who we needed for one of these
special big dances and parties. There was things
to do to go out and have a little start. It wasn't
nobody else. It wasn't offensive. Was there
alcohol at any of the social events? Was there
alcohol at the dances? I'd say no, there was not any
except you'd go outside and a few guys, you know, to
show off more than yes, would have a pint of booze of
some kind, moonshine. Did any students use snuff
or chewing tobacco? You know, they would have been
looking down at it pretty good if they did, and the
rare, rare need that I recall, if ever seen, I'm
sure we did have some shooting back then, but I was
not conscious of it. Did you even know the word
marijuana? No, never heard of it. Didn't even know
what it was until many years later in life. Let's
see, court trips. Courtships we made once or twice
a year, and of course as a Ross volunteer, we made
one or two trips too, and as
the courtships were special, we usually went into
Fort Worth or Dallas, and we always arranged ahead
of time for dates, or tried to, through our friends
who lived in that area, and there were always
occasions for Special occasions for fun. And
y'all would, how did you get up to Fort Worth or
Dallas, Houston or Austin? Train, usually, or
you'd make your own transportation
arrangements. And when did you leave? Did you
leave early Saturday morning or Friday
afternoon? I don't recall, but usually early
Saturday morning, I'm sure, probably. But by the
time Friday afternoon, nothing could get old. And
then what happened, football games were, and day
games, what happened on Saturday night? Well,
that's when we all got out and had our dates, and we
saw the town, you know. We wasn't doing anything
but walking around with our dates around, with
downtown lights and everything.